if you want to see where a is going in
sales just pop over to post sales just
pop over to our
friends we we ask will humans be
automated away in sales it's a fun
question already happened in if you look
at the homepage of everyone doing
customer support software if you look at
zenes inom gorgeous and you squint you
know what they all say if you squint you
can lay off 40% of your team with AI you
can lay off 40% of your te we can argue
whether that works in sales or not but
it's the same it's just there's more
pull there in post sales right so we
should learn from it in sales for
leadership for transparency for product
like here's your little crystal ball
it's not quite going to work in sales
but it's the same tsunami that's going
to come welcome to the Z lab's podcast
I'm Ben solsman with my esteemed co-host
Henry shuck very excited to have on
Jason Lin the CEO of saster Jason to be
here thank you you're a hero of mine
I've been following your stuff for a
really long time how long Ben how long
so when I joined a startup in 2013 and
this seriously my CEO told me I don't
really have time to manage you but Jason
Lin's your boss read his blog post first
if he puts out a post about a process
and you come and ask me about it I'm
going to yell at you I think the real
OG's follow Jason on quora it's really
OG it's really OG yeah so Jason if you
don't already know him as a founder of
saster you built the community over half
a million sass Executives you run a big
events business you have an investment
firm you do a lot of things to I think
help lift up the SAS Community maybe
just do a quick intro for our audience
um that's a pretty good one since I sold
my last company accidentally to a big
tech company I've been on a mission to
help other Founders and fast forward o
12 years we've got 10,000 pieces of
content thousands of podcasts 15,000
people a year come to our events Henry
came to Barcelona when we were there and
we're quirky cuz we're on a mission to
just help other Founders and Executives
so it's a lot of folks produce content
now which is cool but I do think not
having a game to play makes it special
and I was like a pretty good founder I
had I had a nine figureure exit an eight
figure exit I didn't build a
multi-billion dollar company like our
our esteemed host but I was just good
enough to see who was better than me to
to see the Henry's and the others and
and maybe that's what's special about me
is I went far enough to know the game
and I had enough I and I have enough
respect to know folks that are better
than me like Henry and I think that's
produced maybe a little bit of magic J
what's but I don't know if that's true
it's true what is different between you
and me other than I stuck around
longer I would I'm going to guess a
couple things one is we're probably
equally committed right but you were
you're probably even more tenaciously
focused on the goal like doing crazy m&a
and bootstrapping your company and all
that stuff I was always focused on the
goal but maybe a little conservative
maybe you built I I don't know this
maybe you built an even better team than
I did for example that that can be a
difference maybe you're a better
recruiter right that as a Founder the
hardest thing is recruiting once you
have product Market fit product Market
fit is the hardest thing but then after
that nothing matters with the team so I
don't
know but I can I think you have a
multi-decade commitment right and I
don't know that I had it as a Founder I
was still learning each time I I was
insanely committed but maybe not
for 20 years right there's recruiting
and there's also just like people
building and I think a lot of
bootstrapped Founders who are less like
Capital
infused that they have to actually be
great at developing their people almost
equally to their ability to recruit
great people because you
oftentimes I booster out the company to
25 million in revenue and then I brought
in
private Equity wasn't like go spend
everything you can to grow they're like
this thing looks good spend a little
more and make it twice as big and so I I
didn't have a heavy budget to go get the
best people I found good people who I
thought I could develop into great
people yep yeah I think it's a good
point I think when I think reflect on it
I think what my shortcomings are as a
Founder which you have address what the
best address is it's not recruiting one
man management team it's recruiting five
or six how long have you been doing when
was Zoom info founded 2007 okay 2007 so
the average tenure of a VP if they're
Goods probably three and a half years
right so help me with the math what's 17
divided by three and a half five
management teams right so I remember as
a Founder where I remember I was sitting
with my board when we just crossed 10
million revenue and I was and we were
growing 100% I thought that wasn't good
enough back then and cash flow positive
I we didn't have saster or Henry to help
I'm like we suck I'm like we're I'm
preparing myself to Dropbox and Yammer
I'm like we're terrible but deep down
what I was really saying is I don't know
that I have the energy to recruit
another management team I did have the
energy I did but I felt that was my I'm
looking around my team and my team had
pros and cons right it turned out with
hindsight I had a great 1.0 management
team right went on to be Co of gong C of
BR all these but I could see the
limitations like you talked about I'm
like gosh I don't want to recruit the
sea level folks I don't want to top my
team I don't want to do this and maybe
that's a person failing which is to be a
CO like you you got to be like
constantly I think you got to spend 20
to 30% of your time soft recruiting
execs Nothing Else Matters right you can
talk their road map until you're bleue
in the face or sales strategy but if you
don't have the team to do it at Zoom
info scale there's no point in talking
to your office so any that's where I
think you're better than me among many
things is you got to it's tiring to
rebuild the management team isn't it
maybe you love it but I don't know that
anyone loves it I think part of it is
like there's this piece that where you
go yeah you should be recruiting 20 to
30% of your time all the time the other
side of it is you need to be evaluating
your team a 100% of the time and so 100%
of the time you're trying to think like
is this the right person I think it's
the right person are they doing the
right things are they and if they're not
how much time do I have to get them to
be doing the right things and building a
good team or do I have to go start
meeting other people and that's probably
the most tiring part because you want to
get your team feel really good about
them but if you're trying to build it's
like you're constantly evaluating if
they're the right people and you got to
do that and I think if you're smart you
can do that anyone smart can be a Critic
anyone smart can be a Critic the hard
part is not only doing all that building
your company evaluating them but then
realizing hey lpin might for whatever
reason quit tomorrow and I got to get 20
more candidates in on Monday and not
have this wreck the company I think
that's hard and the best if we want if
we get into Revenue leaders on this what
I realized makes an incredible cro or VP
sales is they've always got
10 they're constantly like the best
Recruiters on planet Earth is a great VP
sales because they need a bench of
leaders they need managers and directors
and VPS and and svps and they're and
then people and soldiers are going to
fall and the folks that were good at 1
million won't scale to 10 or 20 and they
know that they will and the hardest job
is sales cuz the number goes up all the
time right the stress goes up so if
you're not building and so I think the
best sales leaders are even better
recruiters and CEOs and and I I love
them but you got to learn this as a
Founder you will stall out and if you
want to talk about why Founders I've
invested in have come up short sometimes
right it's this second management team
theme I see the SEC and it it sometimes
it hits you emotionally like it did me
around 10 or 15 million but I think you
hit a wall around 40 to 50 when you
can't build a great I feel see tooo many
Founders who that second management they
first they screw up the first VP sales
classic saster post right then they
finally get that person and then they're
at 20 30 40 million they're like I'm
ready for the Microsoft guy I knew I
couldn't do shouldn't do it in the
beginning but I've been looking for a
year I'm not as good a recruiter as
Henry and then the company hits a wall
and that that next level especially for
Outsiders I found is really hard if you
don't have this incredible network if
you're somewhere outside if you're in
Boston or Europe or something you just
don't bump into 10 million C in the
street and the two things I'm obsessed
about now that we've been doing this for
a while right the things I'm obsessed
about now for scaling are multi-product
earlier and your second management team
multi-product because these are the
where I see the stumbles we talk a lot
about the fir I can help you get your
first management team but if you get
tired on the second management team
you'll decelerate just when it's good
and I think we're learning now every
single leader maybe you'll disagree
which would be interesting but almost
everyone I talk to is looking and now
saying crime in I should have gone
multiproduct early and there are so many
folks north of a 100 million ARR today
that are single product that behind
closed doors are fracked today it's too
late it's it takes time to build up a
suite like Zoom info you can't even if
you build the products in a year it
takes so long for that Revenue to get
material doesn't it two three years so
if you start now at 100 million or 200
million Revenue to try to go to IPO
you're fracked there's so many single
product companies at 100 million and I
don't know if we got on a Tang these are
the two things I obsess about this that
I was good at the second but who's done
an a second product well the one that
has kicked us in the ass in a way in a
fun way is Rippling and it took me a
while to get it with Parker I've known
Parker since the beginning of saster he
was on Kora so known him since then and
he started to talk about the compound
startup of how after the zenitz
experience he wanted to build all the HR
products right and I think he was
informed he started zenefits and then
Gusto and payrolls over here and they're
all friends and within two years
zenefits built payroll and payroll built
insurance and it all collapsed even
further than in other category so and
and he talks about compound startups and
he did it live at SAS europ watch on
YouTube it's really good but he's also
honest I raised a billion dollars to do
this and I have five teams I didn't
build five products I have five Venture
scale teams and so we and so at first
Parker was saying this I'm like great
for you love you not applicable to 99.9%
of the world but then I thought about it
I'm like we got to do some of it Henry
we can't build five teams and five
products but my meta team for S this
year I was right in my slides is the
bar's gone up right it's time to step up
or to celerate the bar has gone up
everything and the bar has gone up on
multiproduct and we all got to do it
earlier and we can't all be Rippling but
I think if we can study a little bit of
this case study and maybe do it without
a billion and a half or two billion
spent
preo I I think can learn from this
without fully emulating it right because
I think Parker is right even if we can't
all copy all of it and literally every
board meeting I in this is my number one
topic here's where I'm a nudge great
guys glad we're at 100 whatever great
but like where are we going to be are
we're too we're too laying on
multiproduct well we're thinking we're
doing
experiments faster right and the other
one I tell people now is as soon as you
get as soon as you try multiproduct you
get even a million bucks in ARR if as a
Founder you believe in it go all in
because you're going to run out of time
if you're at 40 million or 30 million
and you're like okay I tried this new
thing this new marketing thing I'm
adding and it's at a million and a half
but I don't know I'm like run down if
it's not the right product shoot it but
it's pretty hard to get someone to buy a
couple million of Revenue right do it
the other one Zoom info we should talk
about but HubSpot has gone multiproduct
for the ages for the ages and HubSpot
like a year ago we ride up on S they
stopped breaking down the Revenue per
Cloud you can tell me how public
companies do it but you don't have to
break out your Revenue if you don't want
to but a year and a half ago was great
they like this from marketing this from
CRM this from support and they stopped
and the reason they stopped is marketing
stopped growing as they saturated and
CRM blew up and so at 2.5 billion in
Revenue we're looking at hpot they're
growing 20 high 20s per where would it
be without CRM where would it be right
this this would be a niche product at a
billion and something growing single
digits and so this is another one we can
all because they did sequence this uh
and I I met dares super early I met him
in 2013 he was on Kora in the early days
but I met him because they were thinking
of going into sium back then and he and
Brian had already thought about it for
years before they launched the product
they were free for years it was a big
bet but that's another one like Rippling
that I I study
carefully cuz if you miss sequence it
then you just hit a plateau and it's
just brutal it's just brutal when we're
at SAS Europa this year in London I was
backstage with a huge VC top one top
famous VC backstage his head in his
hands and he was like Jason I've got
four companies at 100 million not
growing now and we went through it and
they were all single product they were
all single product and there's macro
issues but if you don't if you just have
that one product we run out of people on
planet Earth unless you're canva unless
you're canva to buy our products yeah
look I think it comes back to or I think
the the foundational point is if you
want High net retention you get high net
retention in two ways you get it through
high net renewal rate and then High
upsell into the customer base and
particularly during the last two
years if teams are shrinking then you
don't have the users to expand to and so
then you end up with no lever to offset
scrutiny on net renew rate or reduction
in seats with another product to improve
net retention and net retention when you
hit 100 million you just can't sell
enough to drive 40 points of growth if
your net retention is a 100 it's like
much more difficult to sell $40 million
of net new
logos and so you get to this point where
regardless of how good you are at new
sales if you're not driving upsell in
the customer base through new product
you get stuck you get stuck yeah and
then the upsell the base is great and
like data dog's another great example of
the bass the really bad RS one is when
it's a different buyer that's the tough
play right isn't it is when you're like
okay we've got Zoom info we've got
HubSpot for CRM going to it just this is
not an upsell anymore this is a side
cell right but if you do the side cell
you unlock more Tam right because it's
more it's hard harder but it is more tan
so that's one to think about it's oh my
the easy thing in the second product is
to sell the exact same buyer right
that's what y but you got to think as
standers is that the right decision
because we may exhaust our budget right
versus doing what no one our
organization's tired no one wants to
work any harder we don't have enough
story points but maybe we got to use our
brand and risk it and sell to a new line
of business right super hard but it's
all hard
right yeah it's harder
because all of a sudden you endend up
needing to enable your sales team not
only to go find the other buyer but also
to be able to speak their language and
understand what they care about know how
to navigate the sale over there that
getting new product get product Market
fit awesome now you gotta go enable the
sales team to go take it to Market and
obviously if it's the same buyer with
the same relationships you already have
that trust you and view you as a partner
that's a much easier sale than starting
from not exactly zero because hopefully
you you've done Contracting you don't
have to go through procurement again you
don't have to go through security and
privacy review but you have to go over
to somebody else who doesn't really know
you and try to convince them to buy your
product too that's tougher it's tougher
right but everything's tougher today I
think I think we got to step up I think
we all have to step up maybe going back
Jason to your time at echosign you built
this business you sold it to Adobe yeah
what was the thing that allowed you all
to punch above your weight from a go to
market perspective there's a couple
things I didn't think about until
recently but it's really interesting
that we only had 20s something Sellers
and 10 of them went on to be top C right
C at brex C Ripley now gong Co also C at
gong C at gong seismic a long list of
others half of them went on to be
leading now not in a week we sold 10
years ago but why how did 10 of those
folks become so dominant and the answer
is so simple but it really is the the
best do attract the most ambitious under
them right and this it's it's this is
why when you cut a corner in VP and
we're all tired you just I know we could
all write it Henry and I could write
this post 100 times but if you cut the
little corner you got this mediocre team
and if
you hire a magnet then the talent just
flocks to it and when Brendan when
Brendan Cassidy had Tom he just came
from LinkedIn to us and then everyone
just wanted to work for this guy and he
recruited 30% of his time right and he
built up this amazing bench and he built
up Sam blonde and then Sam blonde took
that Playbook very different one and
recruited all these folks that went on
to lead Modern Health and Rippling and
gong and all these other folks and they
just become these magnets and Sam blon
who yeah was at Founders fun and left
brex we were getting dinner the other
night and we were talking about a
company he worked at that that that's
less welln but it did great it actually
had he joined a startup and he took them
from 2 to 10 in one year and like 10 to
30 the next year pretty good right and
then this one did a little less well but
he did great and I asked him how did you
do it he I brought sellers to this
company that they could never otherwise
get there's just no chance the quality
of people that want and he he very
humble God because i' had a little bit
the quality people that came to work for
me was and it did move the needle right
and so I had nothing to do with it I
didn't even know anything about that's
why I started s I knew nothing about
sales I just knew enter go knock on the
door hey Henry will you buy my product I
knew how to do that like all founders
can do founder Le sales right I knew
nothing but this magnet like I it took
me 10 years to see it and honestly some
of those folks that I listed those C
were really good on our team some of
them I'm more surprised they're leing
top clown they're all good but I
couldn't have I didn't have the the
vision as a second time se but first
time I didn't quite see it but but but
50% is pretty good pretty good I heard
one of the stripe Brothers make this
point in a lecture which is the takeaway
is don't hire B players just hire a
players and people know that but the
point he made was to actually be able to
do that in your company you have to be
okay with taking it taking way longer to
get the next person than you're want and
then you want to take and you've been
you're hiring a new VP of sales you're
on your 20th interview and then you're
just like forget it that guy's the best
of everybody I've seen he's not the best
but he is the best of everybody I've
seen and I guess talent for this
position sucks right now the Market's no
good so let me just get this guy who's
the best of the group i' met and bring
him in and that never ever works and the
test to are you gonna be committed to
hiring an A team is in that moment being
like we're still going we just gotta
keep bringing people in until I find
somebody that I really believe is an AA
player yeah we all there's the rule most
of us can we pretend we interview 30
people for a role but we don't really
interview 30 like we look at 30 emails
but we don't really do like screen 30
and so there's a you don't have to get
to number 20 30 if you're at 20 you're
already seeing I'm like ah like this is
the best I'm gonna do I want to do nine
more I'm already but yeah you'll always
regret it and I guess that maybe you
haven't done this as info you could
share I think if you have any scale and
you've gotten to
30 I'm sure John or Patrick it's a
different point but maybe you just got
to promote someone on the team maybe
it's time to to promote like I think
half your folks if your SMB half your
folks should be internal promotions
anyway you might as well just look
around the room and say it's
Lin so Jason give me give Founders
advice here I love promoting from within
and I also like finding profiles and I
often find profiles that maybe aren't
perfect for the role but I see something
in them that I think is going to be
perfect for Zoom info oftentimes when
I've been in a boardroom there is this
pressure from investors that
goes not the right pedigree didn't go to
the right schools didn't not from
Salesforce or service now or one of
these great companies not good enough
for the company and then there you've
got a CEO or a Founder there going like
but look at I think this person who
didn't go to the best schools didn't
work at service now but I believe for
all these other reasons that they're
going to be great for this position how
would you tell a Founder to navigate for
I I literally wrote I thought this was a
very Niche post on sasra just the other
day why your VCS give you terrible
hiring advice it's very short you can go
find it right now and it's because most
of them haven't been operators or were a
long time ago or another category and if
you've never done something you want the
the person from wherever from the brand
like you have no if you have and
actually most folks on boards have no
sales experience right if they have any
its product or CEO some of them do but
they're all attracted to Brands if you
haven't done it right um so I the simple
this the most Atomic
advice is is man or woman up and push
back just say no I I went through that
even with my first VP of sales who was
from LinkedIn first 10 single digit hire
but there was one job he had that one of
my investors didn't love okay he like
he's like this was a dumb thing to do
and he said don't hire him and I
listened and I said Thank you and then I
told and I respect people are actually
probably would do it differently today
they' skip more STS and I just hired
them you just got
the thing is it's a great question so
one realize they're going to give you
bad advice these VCS they just haven't
done it they're not all bad people and
two going to your prior point and and me
and I'd like to hear your thoughts on it
when you meet a magical executive a 10an
the magical ones it's hard enough to
find someone that will actually do the
full job like all of it that's pretty
rare and then when you find one that
cares almost as much as you do 50% as
much 80% as much
you will want to hire them so badly and
when I with I love Brendon but when I
had this little argument just with one
of my investors argu him I already was
in love with him okay for a variety like
it didn't matter we you couldn't change
I knew he was going to save the company
and and I was backstage in an event
years ago with Wade the SE of zapier and
when and zapier super hot it was just
blowing up and we're talking about
recruiting VPS and he said this he says
I'm lucky if half really care that's a
gem not that they're great and they can
run the campaigns and hire 87 people to
to the podcast but if even half of my
VPS care a mini founder care enough like
then you just you fly you fly right
because it's it's so tough as a Founder
CEO you're so lonely and you get one
person on your management team that
cares as much as you like that area gets
so much better right that area you get
two and they collaborate you get three
and I don't care where you are I don't
care if you're behind I don't care if
the competition's killing you I don't
care if you have three VPS or svps
whatever see they care almost as much as
you do no one has that no no one has
that they're all mercenaries they're all
mercenaries at the
competition so I would say yeah if
you've never hired before get a little
advice from someone that has have have
the best whatever interview that person
too like the best sales leader
engineering leader product leader but if
you fall if this is the person just be
polite your investors but Ram that
higher down whatever it takes and and
they'll often have a a wrinkly resume
right they'll often have a wrinkly
resume yep yep you are like taking that
risk on for yourself now it's your job
to make sure they're really successful
if you love here's the thing if you love
them you'll backfill them if you don't
love them you won't if you love them
what you'll say is this like anyone any
great relationship you're like okay
Henry is great but he doesn't love
marketing and social media you just do
it for for Henry right if you're not
sure about Henry you just watch okay
let's let's give him another
quarter but you only back feeli the ones
like when you love someone on your team
it's you know it's it's I hate these
home metaphors but if you love your
partner if you love the spouse you're
going to back fill them too right you're
not going to nag them because they're
not as good you just do it for them
right you just do the if they're not so
good with the finances or good with
planning the trip you just plan the trip
for them because it takes you an hour I
hate planning I hate that all the
reservations oh my God I want to pull my
hair out you do that for 5 minutes for
me I'm in love forever right so you do
that for your VPS for your management
team right you don't nag them where
they're weak you backfill them and
that's why if you don't love them they
almost always fail too right no matter
how good they are on paper if you don't
love them you don't backfill them you
just watch yeah it's really interesting
advice if you look AC if you're a CEO
and you're looking across your team in
the areas that you see weakness on on
your team are you stepping up and
helping them back fill are you back
filling in those areas and maybe even
more are you okay with it because
everything else is so good anyway you're
saying hey this person's only 80% of the
100 but it's such a good 80 I'll take it
whereas the ones you said that you're
not so sure you actually might want to
see him fail so you can get him move
along you want to see him fail but
you're just not going to back fill them
and the other tell if you want to know
if you're asking yourself do I have that
person on your team right here here's my
simple tell do you look forward to the
one-on-one
the ones that solve your pro the one
you're on the journey together that
solve your problems not only do you look
forward to it because it's a little bit
cathartic no matter how tough it is you
look forward because you actually want
to help them Henry what what's going on
and I hear that Henry's stressed about
this thing I want he's so good I'm
looking forward to helping them right
and if you're dreading the one-on-one if
you cancel
it it takes forever you realize that
whatever Jensen from Nvidia said he
doesn't do one-on-one so you don't you
tell them you don't have to do it
anymore it's a sign he's so obviously
one for the ages but I think that's
where he give Founders back advice I
think when you're scaling these one-on
ones are magical moments with your
teammates they're not just tortured
they're I I see one-on ones is as
therapy session it's like The Sopranos
it's like go Tony going in you're one of
your VP should be able to go in and have
a little therapy your good ones because
it's
hard yeah I think one of the things that
I changed this
year is that I went from doing a standup
with my executive leadership team once a
week to doing it every day for an hour
and so my entire executive team gets
together for one hour every single day
and we have an agenda and there are
things across the company that we go
over and it's the one meeting on my
schedule that I look forward to every
single day and when it was one hour once
a week there were like painful meetings
this is like really an interesting thing
there were painful meetings sometimes
we'd have 20 minutes of stuff for an
hourlong meeting and I'd be trying to
fill in the gaps when we went to 1 hour
every single day full agenda every
single day all the way out to the last
minute and people told me like wow
that's a big commitment one hour day
feels like a lot and I'm like you know
what spending an hour a day with the key
lieutenants at the company who are
driving all of the process and changes
and team building feels like the minimal
amount you should be spending with your
team not like the super maximum about
Henry I'll just add that I think one
thing you've left out is that he also
required us those who are on elt to stop
having meetings with each other on the
side so I got rid of eight one-on ons
him plus everyone else because we would
just hash it out there together right so
he he basically made the point that if
you're going to talk about it over here
on the side talk about it in front of
everyone get everyone's input and we'll
move forward faster I think what we
learned during that little that little
nasty bug that went around is that
scrums aren't just for engineering that
the IDE but behind a daily scrum I
remember the first time I had a product
team I'm like can't do this every day
what do you mean you guys are going to
stand up in a room for 15 minutes and
just go write your
code and my co-founder was like you have
to come I'm like I'm not coming every
day like you you're the product guy you
hang out with the team I'm not going to
do it but it turned out what that idea
of the scrum is applicable to all
functional areas we just never ran this
experiment until until we all for a
little while became distributed teams
and it works right Henry I want to draw
into one more thing Jason said and then
we're going to keep moving one thing
that you just mentioned that there was a
couple of folks at echos that you didn't
see it in them at first but then they
later went on to be C an interesting
thing you said because I was at a dinner
in Denver last week with two people who
were ic's with me at Google who went on
to be cro of public companies and I
didn't really see it for them at the
time either there must be a lesson in
there when you think about what changed
or what what maybe that person did to
get there what was it I don't know I I
think my here's my I'll simplify to my
saster learning founder Le sales you
need to hire the type of sales reps that
you would buy from that you believe in
that's it that you would buy for real
this is the mistake every time when I
talk to a Founder where they hit a
roadblock and founder Le sales is a
classic s but I always asked the
question what would you have bought from
Henry and they're like yeah you're right
I the resume look I I didn't really buy
it from that's the test and you believe
in them when you have a VP of sales that
actually is your wingman that you
believe in going to hire a much more
heterogeneous type of f people they're
going to hire folks that are very
product oriented they're going to hire
reps that seem to have ad they're going
to hire folks that are you get
uncomfortable because they seem like
they nag the prospect you're going to
hire folks that you feel don't follow up
quickly enough but a great sales leader
is going to look for the positive
attributes and let the it is there is
still creativity in sales even with AI
there's some creativity is going to let
the creative be creative and so I think
the lesson is let Empower your sales
leaders to hire a heter a Genus team
when you flip from founder Le to VP or
CR Le you got to trust them if they're
performing and then just give them and
then just give folks room to run the
tough part is if you're building a fast
growing organization you can't promote
enough people there's actually some
irony sometimes it's easier in a slow
moving organization because you don't
hire as much and it's slow you can
actually almost promote anyone good the
irony is the faster you're growing
you're bringing in so much human capital
you can't promote every SDR to AE and
every AE to director but you got to try
and I think that's what Brendan and Sam
and the rest of the team did over the
years even when I wasn't there is give
everyone a chance to get promoted for
real and then build a team and hire a
team so everyone got their shot in a
comfortable environment where they knew
the boss and they could get promoted as
an IC and then they could manage a few
folks and then they could hire learn how
to hire two to three folks with some
help and not screw it up right because
that's where you that's where almost
everyone fails on the way to a true vpa
sales is they never learned to
hire they never learned to hire and
they're great IC and then maybe if
they're in a bigger company maybe it's
Zoom info I don't know maybe if you go
to director you mostly inherit a team A
lot of times right you you don't
actually show up and they're like you
got to go hire 10 a you actually you
hire eight and then the team brings in
one or two so you actually don't I'm not
a bigger company you don't always learn
recruiting tools and but if you don't
figure that out you'll stumble right as
soon as you get a leadership role but I
think they had the runway to do all this
over four years and it gave everyone a
chance to do it in a sheltered way and
learn and I think they they flew and I
remember one of these
guys on our team that was one of our top
five guys and then for four years it was
the number one AE at Outreach number one
from the day he started right what's his
name what's that Riley Divine yep and I
was like I met him I'm like Brendon Sky
I don't
know I don't get it like he worked from
home in shorts like now that's normal I
didn't get it but just G gave the folks
room to run and be the diverse and
that's the key right and but you got to
but I think get giving folks a chance to
run and just promoting everyone you can
as hard as it is there's not enough room
on the org chart but the ambitious want
to be promoted in sales right the number
one rookie era is not promoting your
best sdrs they leave they leave you know
doesn't matter how much you pay them
right or how long they've been in it
like three months six months move them
and you're like I'll create an I track
for you and the real here's the thing we
think of SDR as an entry-level position
but the best ones are worth so much
money the best ones are worth much more
than a mid pack a but they just they're
the best ones are all ambitious right
and they just and so you got to if you
don't if you're not looking to promote
your best sdrs in eight months they're
gonna leave and just I thought I'd just
take you through this hypothetical and I
think probably a lot of cro BPS of sales
are dealing with this but so I'm a new
cro or a new CEO at a $50 million
Revenue company it's losing $10 million
a year and I have to get to break even
in the next two quarters I'm allowed to
bring growth down a bit to do that but
I've got to get to break even I have to
stop losing 10
million uh a year what am I doing what
advice would you give me well first of
all you let's step back and use an
interesting case study toast just ju I
put it up on S they just did their last
they put up they just went profitable
not non-gaap but Gap profitable and
they're pretty brutal at toast it's a
tough model it's SMB with low gross
margins because of payments and negative
gross margins on Hardware it is not an
easy business Zoom info is tough but at
least the data doesn't cost you don't
have to I don't have to ship a tablet
with it okay as hard as it is it's a
brutal business if you look at it and
they had to get profitable you know this
right the Wall Street said you got to
get profitable toast and so they and
toast has more data on sales than I've
ever seen a public company and they
increase quotas 50% they cut territories
in half this is classic old sales for
everyone in sales hates it I I crushed
it I was president Circle and then they
cut my territory from paloalto to just
the end of University or they move me to
the Pensacola and Flor they all every
salesperson has a story of their
territory being cut in half and they're
quoted doubled right it's a
salesperson's nightmare totally worked
at toast on every level it worked at
every level so one option to answer your
questions to be more of a badass I think
the Tactical answer 50 million got to
get profitable right the Tactical answer
for more Kumbaya people is probably cut
half your sales team con this always
works concentrate your leads in tougher
times it may not work it m maybe it
doesn't work at Zoom info scill but even
the 50 million it's going to work take
whatever leads you get a month 100 a
thousand and you're going to look and
just do look on a spreadsheet okay Jason
Ben and Henry close from 10 leads they
close 10,000 the average is 5,000 the
bottom is 2,000 I know it's brutal just
get rid of the bottom
40% just get instantly get rid of them
in one quarter your Revenue goes up it's
ultimately you need capacity so that's
one cut your sales team in half keep
your closers they'll make more you'll
make more in the short
term and then the second one and that's
cool the second one that you have to do
today and this one's brutal this one is
not what you want to do but you got to
get profitable you said right the second
one you got to do is you got to retreat
to your core ICP because it's cheaper
it's always cheaper to sell to your core
ICP and not only do we have to go
multiproduct here we all have to find a
cost-effective way to sell in strategies
where we're we're not dominant right
there are categories Zoom info is so big
there are certain segments of the market
where you win 80% of the deals 70% of
the deals and so when times are chaper
you Retreat to that right and there's
other segments where you win 20% or
maybe you're in Europe or there's
regulated dat I don't know all this you
can tell me right and when times are
good you brute force that you're like
let's go attack that hill where we close
5% of the deals but it it costs more
money it's not always hopefully you
break even on these outer circles right
that's your goal as a Founders let's
have a core that where the C works and
then let's once it works let's add some
layers where like the cac's tolerable or
then let's add a third layer where if we
just make a dollar it's worth it because
we're trying to win we're not trying to
be eighth right and so you cut these
layers of the circle and you Retreat to
the corn it feels good and the close
rates are high but it's the start of a
slow downward spiral to death but I
don't know that you have a choice Henry
if that's if there's no more money and
there's no more money and you're 50
million and this is a common scenario
right so cut half your sellers easy it
sounds brutal but it's easy sell to your
ICP it tastes good but if you do this
more than four quarters the
competition's going to pass you by
they're just going to pass you by right
and it's so hard because we're in this
efficiency era now but to win you got to
play dominant strategy and one way or
another you got to play in spaces where
you're weak this is the number one use
of capital Venture Capital maybe buy B
discover by Zoom info I don't know how
that that's a really good use right by
by your competitor that that's that's A+
but ultimately you want to play you
don't just want to win where you all win
all the deals right you want to play
dominant strategy and it and it's tough
when you can't because if your comp if
you have no money and your competitor
has no money great you both stick to
your little lily pads right I'll do
sales you do marketing I'll do Europe
I'll do us but if you really want to win
and you want to be in in the US stripe
needs to be in Europe and AD you needs
to be competing here and you can't
you're sacrificing the dominant strategy
if you don't play dominant you got to
play in categories where you lose most
deals to win this is a weird thing you
got to play in categories where you lose
most deals and just just walk through
why do you have to play in categories
that you lose most deals because you
won't grow your Market sh you won't grow
your overall Tam
enough we all start in this little you I
you tell me in the old days I guess
discover who was your top I I remember
you told me before like the Zoom info
and discover icps were different right
one was more mid-market and one was SMB
which one were you SB or bid Market yeah
but I had a direct competitor before
called Rain King that was the same
exactly the same thing okay but you at
discovering Zoom info had slightly
different icps right yes slightly
different icps yeah so you could just
hide you just Ram them together that's
the best way that's that I like that
strategy we can't all do it but if you'd
remain separate
that you guys want to look at each other
across the battlefield like you want to
you got to take share away don't you
yeah and I think actually that is what
Zoom info was doing to discover orc
there were accounts where they were
coming in where we were like really
penetrated in companies that sold to
technology decision makers we have the
best data no question about it and we
would beat them 80 n 90% of the time but
then we they started showing up into
those core accounts and like basically
Trojan horsing their way into larger
accounts they said listen I know you're
an IT you sell to it and you have
discover org for that but you also
probably sometimes sell to the COO and
sometimes to the CFO and sometimes these
other people get Zoom info for all of
that then they got Zoom info and they
found their way into the IT side yeah so
the most extreme I didn't get this most
extreme example in the old days when we
were competing with DocuSign in the very
beginning we pretty much owned the sales
Force ecosystem because we were in the
first generation of Salesforce wasn't
that hard you just had to produce a good
integration that actually worked most of
them didn't work and then you would get
all the leads that existed and then docu
signed three years later figured out
they wanted to get into real estate into
sales and they would go in and they
would find all of our accounts right and
they would offer them two years free
unlimited use unlimited anything and I'm
we laughed this is a sign of desperation
right it was a sign
of dominant we're going to go long
okay and we'll throw 5 10 20 million and
even 20 or 30 people into this and they
did and any marketing program salesource
would do they were there you want the
500k booth at dream Force we're in and
the pic's
free okay and as the first time found
her I'm like we just keep winning these
deals we just want Google for 500k and
Comcast for 400k and Facebook and we had
this great sales team and we had a 10x
feature that we would beat them but they
were doing this dominant strategy and if
they're doing it and you don't like this
like Zoom info going to your accounts
you're going to lose right so it's so
easy to retreat to that Lily that lily
pad or whatever this crummy metaphor I'm
using but you got to keep expanding
because like you said how you GNA add
grow add 4 100 million 400 mil it's just
yeah you got to expand your surface area
for your Tam right related to that one
of the things I took for granted as a
founder and I see this is the number one
issue in sales today is everyone was a
product expert now it's easy in a sales
tool but what I just showed you was
being a everyone was a product expert
weren't they that demo was so powerful
of the redlining or the localization or
the ease of use I I got to tell you 90%
of the F sales folks I interact with
today can't demo their product 100% I
think this is you're going to lose all
those what the hell their to do it for
him right I'm just kidding no it's sad
it's sad I'll tell you where I think it
doesn't matter for what it's worth it
doesn't matter in the super Enterprise
in the super Enterprise particularly if
you're on the account management side
you probably don't need to be the
greatest product expert ever to be the
best Enterprise account manager in the
world but everywhere else it's like
painful to hear answers to very basic
product questions get like flobed or not
nailed because like in the early days we
were all product experts every
salesperson knew the nuances of
integrating Zoom info into Salesforce or
how you install the Salesforce native
app application or how you handled
duplicates or how you did hierarchy and
I think the that Nuance for most sellers
is gone they don't really know the
product or particularly know the use
case that they're solving for with the
problem and you know what drives me
crazy there's so much content on link so
many thought leaders in LinkedIn
everyone talking about building
relationships in sales right now the
number one way I think you build a
relationship in sales today no matter
what is being a product
expert are you literally the biggest
Guru in the data SP sales data space the
biggest Guru in your industry and you
learn a little bit how to ask for the
close you don't even you will destroy
the competition there's too many vendors
too much is being cut too much is being
rationalized my time is short I'm not
adding 50 SAS vendors I'm shrinking my I
want to talk to an expert I don't want
to talk to this person that thinks
they're people person I don't need a
people person I need an expert
the super Enterprise maybe the golfing
still works but another looking back I
haven't thought about this in a long
time there were Keith crack came into
docy sign and blew it up took him public
he was great super he had been seov Rebo
great but the guy before him got fired
and he was the fifth Co before him they
went through five cosos until they had
Keith and the fifth Co got fired in part
because they lost Facebook to us and
Facebook was even back then was pretty
big and they thought they already commit
they already did a commit to the board
that they were committing this huge deal
to Facebook and we won it and part of it
was that we were local we had a 10x
feature this localization was so
important to Facebook but we talked to
our guy later he they came in and never
demoed the
product they did the now this wasn't
Keith Keith would have made it happen
but the guy before they did it and the C
committed to the deal and they backs
slapped and they talked about the back
nine at Pebble and and brought him nice
vests probably and we went and just this
doesn't work forever but we heard this
story later I'm like that's I couldn't
imagine going to the meeting and not
this product's about ease of use but and
and I just feel like we've deteriorated
we have
deteriorated and not enough cosos just
ask this question in sales just we don't
ask sell me this pen anymore and we
don't ask folks to do a demo anymore we
used to in the office used to come in
the office and you don't have to do at
the first meeting but you wouldn't hire
someone in sales until they could sell
you this pen and do a de maybe you did I
never ever hired anyone that didn't do
the demo or to sell me this pen
now we're just like oh I got to hire 100
reps today you worked at Zoom info and
you're nice
done how do you think AI changes what
great leadership looks like in go to
market I think great I think it's a very
it's interesting question I don't know
the answer but what I do think I think
the story of getting rid of the four
reps because they asked the AI seven
same question 7,000 times I think it
will lead to a next level of
transparency for leadership right just
like with chorus and call recording that
was jawdropping when it started right
the whole cat your your jaw fell out
like now it's table stakes and in a
million products right of course is the
best one but but we remember but
whenever that stuff
lodged it was but not only was it jaw
driving but it was jaw dropping for
transparency for transparency and I
actually you asked for leadership I
think we're gonna we're going to have to
guess a lot less and rely just on
dashboards a lot less and I think that's
a big change right it it is a big change
it will lead to a lot of frictions
that's my maybe my Niche answer to the
leadership question right yeah I think
it may not produce all the benefits for
individual knowledge workers that they
think it may lead to
more at first but first you'd be like my
boss is listening to my calls on gorus
chorus and then like a year ago you'd be
like there's a note taker on my zoom but
now we're all it's all normalized right
and AI is going to rip through every in
your email box everything you do and
it's going to tell Henry exactly and if
you if you guys know anything about the
um qual the QA space in customer success
I think everything in post sales is
actually head of sales and AI far ahead
way like two to three years ahead post
sales and sales and there's a QA space
where you for years you've been manually
grading thousands of customer success
agents and I've done one of these
Investments it's completely ripped
through the space now everything is aied
in qi if I have a th folks picking up
the phone at my ecas company I'm not
going to grade them manually anymore
the AI is going to literally do
everything for me suck up all that data
and tell me Lin's got to go or lkin at
this is everything's been a like we all
the stuff we're talking about in sales
has already happened post sales like
maybe almost to a full right if you look
at zenes or gorgeous or intercom they're
so far ahead of sales they're so far
ahead of sales mainly because people
want to lay off people this is the the
mean reason but they're so far ahead and
and part of that is this transparency
that didn't exist I think it's going to
happen in sales over two years and a
different way of looking at if you want
in my opinion if you want to see where
AI is going in sales just pop over to
post sales just pop over to our
friends that are automated that are
trying to automate we we ask will humans
be automated away in sales it's a fun
question already happened in if you look
at the homepage of everyone doing
customer support software if you look at
zenes in a comra gorgeous and you squint
you know what they all say if you squint
you can lay off 40% of your team with AI
you can lay off 40 % of your two we can
argue whether that works in sales or not
but it's the same it's just there's more
pull there in post sales right so we
should learn from it in sales for
leadership for transparency for product
like here's your little crystal ball
it's not quite going to work in sales
but it's the same tsunami that's going
to come that's a great parallel it's
like Jason when you think this is an
interesting one
because I actually don't think and I
could be wrong but I don't think that
regardless of how much more efficiency
and pipeline you say you're going to
bring with your AI sales solution that
people are going to let go of their
salese to bring in your AI driven
co-pilot thing and they'll believe there
will be productivity boosts but it's
just it's not as compelling like there
are two things that I felt are really
compelling in AI Land one the Zen desks
and customer support people of the world
basically going yeah you get rid of 40%
of your customer support people in
replace it with this bot it'll handle
99% of what comes through and then on
the other side GitHub being like 20%
more developer
productivity and I think on that side
people have talked about developer
productivity sales rep productivity
whatever productivity forever but for
whatever reason it is etched in my brain
that GitHub will give me 20% more
productivity github's co-pilot will give
me 20% more productivity out of my
Engineers Maybe because my Engineers are
hard to hire and I know that when you
get a good one you really want to keep
them and the idea that I get one more
person out of five people just by giving
them this tool is the most compelling
thing in software in a software business
but I haven't found anybody else
nail messaging that like really compels
somebody around AI what you know what we
see for sure the ability of leveraging
AI to understand all of your customer
and Prospect data and your company
and then prior prioritize accounts that
you should be going after based on a
really deep understanding of your
ICP who you've talked to what signals
are being generated this is like back in
the day everstring and infer and predict
leader all these like early 2010s
companies that were trying to do this
and generative AI absolutely unlocks
that in a big way then
just can AI write a better first email
than my brand new SDR can try to figure
out on their own absolutely and at a
minimum it gets you a much better
starting position but once that cycle
starts
automating that's going to be really
like an inflection point from a new
sales perspective yeah I think maybe the
meta question like is if you look at if
you started engineering it's we think
all these Innovations would lead to us
needing fewer Engineers no the engineers
just get better every Innovation we've
had in software from open source to just
using stack Overflow to co-pilots they
just get better we don't really can't do
we can't run Zoom info with three
Engineers it's just they can produce
much better software right and it's an
arms race that goes up right the
question for sales is Will everyone in
sales that works more than 15 hours
would get better from AI or will that
happen but the slider will get rid of a
little bit of them I I don't know I'm
waiting to see I'm
observing theoretically they can just
get better they can right but maybe
we're going to see more toasts where the
AI is the the lubricant to drive to
force the hire Force up the quotas and
cut the territories and it's great
you've got here's your good news there's
good news and bad news Henry good news
is zoom info copine for the whole team
you don't have to you don't have to
share email addresses we're got
Enterprise wide bad news is your quot is
up 50% in your territory shrunken it
might be some version of that with AI
we'll have to see
yep Jason we got to wrap really soon
thank you so much for spending the time
with us our traditional last question
that we ask everyone is who is the
smartest person you've ever met and what
did you learn that you took away I'm
just going to say smartest people in
Tech right I'm actually
in and maybe Henry would be in this
category but I I didn't meet him at this
moment that I'm going to describe but
the two best I've
met are Peter gastner who
seiva they raised three million and are
worth 34 billion Pharma and Vault for
Pharma and CRM CRM and Vault for
Pharma and I admit this one is slightly
toxic Travis kalanick when I met him pre
Uber barely met him I was just invited
to a lunch and what the hell did Peter
gastner running a eight figure deal
Pharma company and Travis kenck running
a pirated music company and then Uber
and then a cloud kit have in common this
is the magic of the best
Founders literally they could explain
the future to me in the crispest terms
the crispest ter when I met Peter
through one of our investors I said nice
this guy Peter Gast intense but nice
he's okay here's what's going on with
Viva oh what are you doing okay here's
how the next five years might roll out
for you
EO if he was pretty right he was pretty
right in a way I haven't seen before and
I remember meeting Travis like when I
was really young in the early days when
video was just exploding on the internet
he's here's where video will go here's
where something like YouTube will go
here's how it will use here's how it
will percolate through Society here's
out would change how we consume video
and I'm I'm looking at 320 * 240
pixelated videos on my phone and I'm
like what are you talking about dude and
everything from music to video that he
said and it's not blabbing it it was
actually taking all of that seeing five
to eight years in the future and
compress it into mortal communication
it's an incredible skill right and I
think so I think the best cosos can see
further into the future than the rest of
us can and then they can bring that into
the present in a way we can see it and
just it's for me that's the M that's
magic right so that those are my
learnings and I just remember being my
jawdropping with both Peter and Trav
Jesus this these guys are like
here yeah amazing this is how I feel
when I hear John cison talk or is it I'm
like I like oh I just I'm like very far
away from understanding the world the
same way that they do but you know what
the beauty as CEO is actually you don't
have to be that I'm not saying you're
not but you don't have to be the person
you just hire them on your
team that's like the best Co these are
the best
ones but you can be like you have to be
humble enough as a CE Co to say listen I
got a higher VP smarter than me right
that's that's another cheat code is
seeing that and then they're not all the
the CEOs of the top whatever companies
didn't they weren't all first in their
class from wherever Harvard and Stanford
were they that's the classic thing right
you can hire them that's just being you
want to hire the best but also if you
think you're just pretty smart hire
folks relentlessly smarter than you
under you you be the Visionary and then
that's the way to backfill it just if
you're 130 IQ just hire some 150s it's
fine like you don't have to you don't
have to do it all yourself yeah I love
it Jason thank you so much for coming on
the Z Labs podcast truly an honor for me
I've been following you forever I really
appreciate the time and we hope to help
you on again okay sounds good all right
thanks everybody